# ForecastingThroughCausalEmbedding
The code used to generate the figures for the research paper "Universal set of Observables for Forecasting through Causal Embedding" and its suppliment.

## Structure of the repository:
- Data: Contains the data files used for training and testing the programs.
- Img: Contains all the images created by the programs, as follows:
  + DP: Double Pendulum figures
  + Henon: Henon map figures (with 0.01 standard deviation noise)
  + Henon_Fine: Henon map figures (with 0.00001 standard deviation noise)
  + Logistic: Logistic map figures
  + Lorenz_Coarse: Lorenz map figures
  + PCA: Figures showing global dissipativity using the principle components of X
  + PM: Pomeau–Manneville map figures
- Libs: Contains the libraries that are imported into all the programs
- Predicted_Data: Contains the data generated by the programs

After these folders all the programs that were used to create the figures are found. The following abbreviations were used:
- ESN: These programs contain the implementation/usage of the Echo State Network for prediction.
- RCN: These programs contain the implementation/usage of the Recurrent Conjugate Network for prediction.
- Sindy: These programs contain the implementation/usage of Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamical systems for prediction.
- Takens: These programs contain the implementation/usage of Takens delay embedding theory for prediction.

The other files in this directory is:
- DP_generator.py: This generates the double pendulum data that are used in the prediction programs.
- PCA_Dissipativity.py: This file demonstrates global dissipativity.
- Pearson_Coefficients.py/txt: Evaluates/contains the pearson coefficients demonstrating functional complexity.
- Wasserstein_Distances.py/txt: Evaluates/contains the wasserstein distances of the different predictions.
